README.md, before:

## Data Analysis and Visualization

This repository contains assignments completed for the Data Analysis and Visualization course at JAMK.  
It demonstrates techniques in **data exploration, cleaning, transformation, visualisation, and communication of insights** using Python and Jupyter Notebooks.

## Skills Demonstrated

- Data loading and preprocessing  
- Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)  
- Creating effective visualisations  
- Drawing insights from data  
- Communicating results through annotated notebooks

## Contents

**assignments/** — All course assignment notebooks and supporting files.
Each assignment folder includes a Jupyter Notebook (.ipynb) with:
- Python code
- Visualisations
- Markdown explanations of methods and findings

* [Assignment 1](assignments/assignments_01.ipynb)
* [Assignment 2](assignments/assignments_02.ipynb)
* [Assignment 3](assignments/assignments_03.ipynb)
* [Assignment 4](assignments/assignments_04.ipynb)
* [Assignment 5](assignments/assignments_05.ipynb)
* [Assignment 6](assignments/assignments_06.ipynb)

**README.md** - This overview and usage instructions  
**requirements.txt** - Contains libraries used in the notebooks

Commit message:

Update README.md with how-to

README.md, after:

## Data Analysis and Visualization

This repository contains assignments completed for the Data Analysis and Visualization course at JAMK.  
It demonstrates techniques in **data exploration, cleaning, transformation, visualisation, and communication of insights** using Python and Jupyter Notebooks.

## Skills Demonstrated

- Data loading and preprocessing  
- Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)  
- Creating effective visualisations  
- Drawing insights from data  
- Communicating results through annotated notebooks

## Contents

**assignments/** — All course assignment notebooks and supporting files.
Each assignment folder includes a Jupyter Notebook (.ipynb) with:
- Python code
- Visualisations
- Markdown explanations of methods and findings

* [Assignment 1](assignments/assignments_01.ipynb)
* [Assignment 2](assignments/assignments_02.ipynb)
* [Assignment 3](assignments/assignments_03.ipynb)
* [Assignment 4](assignments/assignments_04.ipynb)
* [Assignment 5](assignments/assignments_05.ipynb)
* [Assignment 6](assignments/assignments_06.ipynb)

**README.md** - This overview and usage instructions  
**requirements.txt** - Contains libraries used in the notebooks  

## How to Run

1. Clone this repository.
2. Create and activate a virtual environment
    ```
    python3 -m venv venv
    ```
3. Install dependencies:
   ```
    pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Launch Jupyter Notebook.
5. Open any assignment notebook in the _assignments_ folder and run the cells.  

> Each assignment focuses on a different aspect of data analysis and visualisation, such as:  
>   - Loading and cleaning datasets  
>   - Exploring data distributions  
>   - Visualising data with charts and plots  
>   - Interpreting patterns and insights
> 
> These notebooks show the progression of analytical thinking and technical skills relevant for data-focused roles.
